Elastic Compute cloud

Statistics
22 regions and 69 availability zones globally, 275 instance types for virtually every business need.

Features:

Amazon EC2 provides a number of powerful features for building scalable, failure resilient, enterprise class applications.

1. Bare Metal instances:
   Ideal for workloads that require access to hardware feature sets (such as Intel® VT-x), or for applications that need to
   run in non-virtualized environments for licensing or support requirements. Bare metal instances are built on the Nitro system,
   A collection of AWS-built hardware offload and hardware protection components that come together to securely provide high
   performance networking and storage resources to EC2 instances.

2. Optimize Compute Performance and Cost with Amazon EC2 Fleet
   With a single API call, Amazon EC2 Fleet lets you provision compute capacity across EC2 instance types, Availability Zones,
   And purchase models to help optimize scale, performance and cost.

3. Pause and Resume Your Instances
   You can hibernate your Amazon EC2 instances backed by Amazon EBS, and resume them from this state at a later time. Applications that
   take a while to bootstrap and persist state into memory (RAM) can benefit from this feature.

4. GPU Compute Instances
   Customers requiring massive floating point processing power will benefit from the next-generation of general-purpose GPU compute instances.
   P3 instances are ideally suited for machine learning, high-performance computing, computational fluid dynamics, computational finance,
   seismic analysis, molecular modeling, genomics, and rendering workloads.

5. High I/O Instances
   High I/O instances are an Amazon EC2 instance type that can provide customers with random I/O rates over 3 million IOPS. High I/O I3 and I3en
   instances are backed by Non-Volatile Memory Express (NVMe) based SSDs, and are ideally suited for running very high performance NoSQL databases,
   transactional systems, and Elastic Search workloads. High I/O instances also offer sequential disk throughput up to 16 GB/s, which is ideal for
   analytics workloads.

6. Dense HDD Storage Instances
   Workloads requiring very high storage density per instance, and high sequential I/O for data-intensive applications like Massively Parallel
   Processing (MPP) data warehouse, MapReduce and Hadoop distributed computing, and log and data processing can benefit from Dense Storage instances.

7. Optimized CPU Configurations
   The Optimize CPUs feature gives you greater control of your Amazon EC2 instances on two fronts. First, you can specify a custom number of vCPUs
   when launching new instances to save on vCPU-based licensing costs. Second, you can disable multithreading for workloads that perform well with
   single-threaded CPUs, such as certain high-performance computing (HPC) applications.

8. Flexible Storage Options
   Amazon EBS provides persistent, highly available, consistent, low-latency block storage volumes for use with Amazon EC2 instances. Each Amazon EBS
   volume is automatically replicated within its Availability Zone to protect you from component failure, offering high availability and durability.
   It is designed for application managers who need to tune workloads for capacity, performance and cost. Amazon EFS provides simple, scalable, persistent,
   fully managed cloud file storage for shared access. Designed for high availability and durability across multiple Availability Zones it delivers a file
   system interface with standard file system access semantics, grows and shrinks capacity automatically, and provides application managers with high
   throughput and consistently low latencies at petabyte scale.

9. Paying for What You Use
10. Multiple Locations
11. Elastic IP Addresses
12. Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling
13. High Performance Computing (HPC) Clusters
14. Enhanced Networking
15. Elastic Fabric Adapter (Fast interconnect for HPC clusters)
16. Available on AWS PrivateLink
17. Amazon Time Sync Service


Instance types
1. General Purpose
   General purpose instances provide a balance of compute, memory and networking resources, and can be used for a variety of diverse workloads.
   These instances are ideal for applications that use these resources in equal proportions such as web servers and code repositories.
   Scale-out workloads such as web servers, containerized microservices, caching fleets, and distributed data stores, as well as development environments

2. Compute Optimized
   Compute Optimized instances are ideal for compute bound applications that benefit from high performance processors.
   Compute Optimized instances are well suited for batch processing workloads, media transcoding, high performance web servers, high performance computing (HPC),
   scientific modeling, dedicated gaming servers and ad server engines, machine learning inference and other compute intensive applications.
   High performance web servers, scientific modelling, batch processing, distributed analytics, high-performance computing (HPC), machine/deep learning inference,
   Ad serving, highly scalable multiplayer gaming, and video encoding.

3. Memory Optimized
   Memory optimized instances are designed to deliver fast performance for workloads that process large data sets in memory.
   R5 instances are well suited for memory intensive applications such as high performance databases, distributed web scale in-memory caches, mid-size in-memory
   databases, real time big data analytics, and other enterprise applications.

4. Accelerated Computing
   Accelerated computing instances use hardware accelerators, or co-processors, to perform functions, such as floating point number calculations, graphics processing,
   Or data pattern matching, more efficiently than is possible in software running on CPUs. Machine/Deep learning, high performance computing, computational fluid dynamics,
   computational finance, seismic analysis, speech recognition, autonomous vehicles, drug discovery.

5. Storage Optimized
   Storage optimized instances are designed for workloads that require high, sequential read and write access to very large data sets on local storage.
   They are optimized to deliver tens of thousands of low-latency, random I/O operations per second (IOPS) to applications.
   NoSQL databases (e.g. Cassandra, MongoDB, Redis), in-memory databases (e.g. Aerospike), scale-out transactional databases, data warehousing,
   Elasticsearch, analytics workloads.


Instance Features:
1. Burstable Performance Instances
   Burstable Performance Instances provide a baseline level of CPU performance with the ability to burst above the baseline.

2. Multiple Storage Options
   Amazon EBS is a durable, block-level storage volume that you can attach to a single, running Amazon EC2 instance. You can use Amazon EBS as a primary storage device
   for data that requires frequent and granular updates. Many Amazon EC2 instances can also include storage from disks that are physically attached to the host computer.
   This disk storage is referred to as instance store. The data on an instance store volume persists only during the life of the associated Amazon EC2 instance.


3. EBS-optimized Instances
4. Cluster Networking


FAQ Notes:

1. The On-Demand Instance limits for an AWS account are set on a per-region basis. Limits change over time. Amazon EC2 is constantly monitoring your usage within each region
   and your limits are raised automatically based on your use of EC2.
2. The vCPU-based limits only apply to running On-Demand instances.
