RDS
Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) makes it easy to set up, operate, and scale a relational database in the cloud. It provides
cost-efficient and resizable capacity while automating time-consuming administration tasks such as hardware provisioning, database setup, patching
and backups.


What happens when I convert my RDS instance from Single-AZ to Multi-AZ?

For the RDS for MySQL, MariaDB, PostgreSQL and Oracle database engines, when you elect to convert your RDS instance from Single-AZ to Multi-AZ, the
following happens:
A snapshot of your primary instance is taken
A new standby instance is created in a different Availability Zone, from the snapshot
Synchronous replication is configured between primary and standby instances
As such, there should be no downtime incurred when an instance is converted from Single-AZ to Multi-AZ. However, you may see increased latency while
the data on the standby is caught up to match to the primary.



Features:
1. Lower administrative burden
   Amazon RDS database instances are pre-configured with parameters and settings appropriate for the engine and class you have selected. You can
   launch a database instance and connect your application within minutes. DB Parameter Groups provide granular control and fine-tuning of your
   database.

2. Automatic software patching
   Amazon RDS will make sure that the relational database software powering your deployment stays up-to-date with the latest patches. You can
   exert optional control over when and if your database instance is patched.

3. Best practice recommendations
   Amazon RDS provide best practice guidance by analyzing configuration and usage metrics from your database instances. Recommendations cover areas
   such as database engine versions, storage, instance types, and networking. You can browse the available recommendations and perform a recommended
   action immediately, schedule it for their next maintenance window, or dismiss it entirely.

4. Performance
   General Purpose Storage is an SSD-backed storage option delivers a consistent baseline of 3 IOPS per provisioned GB and provides the ability to
   burst up to 3,000 IOPS above the baseline. This storage type is suitable for a broad range of database workloads.

   Provisioned IOPS Storage is an SSD-backed storage option designed to deliver fast, predictable, and consistent I/O performance. You specify an
   IOPS rate when creating a database instance, and Amazon RDS provisions that IOPS rate for the lifetime of the database instance. This storage type
   is optimized for I/O-intensive transactional (OLTP) database workloads. You can provision up to 40,000 IOPS per database instance.

5. Scalability
   a. Push-button compute scaling
      You can scale the compute and memory resources powering your deployment up or down, up to a maximum of 32 vCPUs and 244 GiB of RAM.
      Compute scaling operations typically complete in a few minutes.

   b. Easy storage scaling
      As your storage requirements grow, you can also provision additional storage. The Amazon Aurora engine will automatically grow the size of your
      database volume as your database storage needs grow, up to a maximum of 64 TB or a maximum you define. The MySQL, MariaDB, Oracle, and
      PostgreSQL engines allow you to scale up to 64 TB of storage and SQL Server supports up to 16 TB. Storage scaling is on-the-fly with zero
      downtime.

   c. Read Replicas
      Read Replicas make it easy to elastically scale out beyond the capacity constraints of a single DB instance for read-heavy database workloads.
      You can create one or more replicas of a given source DB instance and serve high-volume application read traffic from multiple copies of your
      data, thereby increasing aggregate read throughput.

6. Availability and durability
   a. Automated backups
      The automated backup feature of Amazon RDS enables point-in-time recovery for your database instance. Amazon RDS will backup your database and
      transaction logs and store both for a user-specified retention period. Your automatic backup retention period can be configured to up to
      thirty-five days.

   b. Database snapshots
      Database snapshots are user-initiated backups of your instance stored in Amazon S3 that are kept until you explicitly delete them. You can
      create a new instance from a database snapshots whenever you desire. Although database snapshots serve operationally as full backups, you are
      billed only for incremental storage use.

   c. Multi-AZ deployments
      Amazon RDS Multi-AZ deployments provide enhanced availability and durability for database instances, making them a natural fit for production
      database workloads. When you provision a Multi-AZ database instance, Amazon RDS synchronously replicates your data to a standby instance in a
      different Availability Zone (AZ).

7. Automatic host replacement
   Amazon RDS will automatically replace the compute instance powering your deployment in the event of a hardware failure.

8. Security
   a. Encryption at rest and in transit
      Amazon RDS allows you to encrypt your databases using keys you manage through AWS Key Management Service (KMS). On a database instance running
      with Amazon RDS encryption, data stored at rest in the underlying storage is encrypted, as are its automated backups, read replicas, and
      snapshots. Amazon RDS supports Transparent Data Encryption in SQL Server and Oracle. Transparent Data Encryption in Oracle is integrated with
      AWS CloudHSM, which allows you to securely generate, store, and manage your cryptographic keys in single-tenant Hardware Security Module (HSM)
      appliances within the AWS cloud.

   b. Network isolation
      AWS recommends that you run your database instances in Amazon VPC, which allows you isolate your database in your own virtual network and
      connect to your on-premises IT infrastructure using industry-standard encrypted IPsec VPNs. You can configure firewall settings and control
      network access to your database instances.

   c. Resource-level permissions
      Amazon RDS is integrated with AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) and provides you the ability to control the actions that your AWS IAM
      users and groups can take on specific Amazon RDS resources, from database instances through snapshots, parameter groups, and option groups.
      You can also tag your Amazon RDS resources and control the actions that your IAM users and groups can take on groups of resources that have
      the same tag and associated value. For example, you can configure your IAM rules to ensure developers are able to modify "Development" database
      instances, but only Database Administrators can make changes to "Production" database instances.

9. Manageability
   a. Monitoring and metrics
      Amazon RDS provides Amazon CloudWatch metrics for your database instances at no additional charge. You can use the RDS Management Console to
      view key operational metrics, including compute/memory/storage capacity utilization, I/O activity, and instance connections. Amazon RDS also
      provides Enhanced Monitoring, which provides access to over 50 CPU, memory, file system, and disk I/O metrics, and Performance Insights,
      an easy-to-use tool that helps you quickly detect performance problems.

   b. Event Notifications
      Amazon RDS can notify you via email or SMS text message of database events through Amazon SNS. You can use the AWS Management Console or the
      Amazon RDS APIs to subscribe to over 40 different database events associated with your database instances.

Limits:
1. customers are allowed to have up to a total of 40 Amazon RDS DB instances. Of those 40, up to 10 can be Oracle or SQL Server DB instances under
   the "License Included" model.
2. Note that RDS for SQL Server has a limit of up to 100 databases on a single DB instance
3. RDS for Oracle: 1 database per instance; no limit on number of schemas per database imposed by software
4. RDS for SQL Server: Up to 100 databases per instance.
5. Automated backups are deleted when the DB instance is deleted. Only manually created DB Snapshots are retained after the DB Instance is deleted.
6. Migration of DB Instances from inside to outside VPC is not supported. For security reasons, a DB Snapshot of a DB Instance inside VPC cannot be
   restored to outside VPC. The same is true with “Restore to Point in Time” functionality.
7. With Multi-AZ deployments, replication is transparent: you do not interact directly with the standby, and it cannot be used to serve read traffic.
8. a Multi-AZ standby cannot serve read requests. Multi-AZ deployments are designed to provide enhanced database availability and durability, rather
   than read scaling benefits.
9. The creation of the standby, synchronous replication, and failover are all handled automatically. This means you cannot select the Availability
   Zone your standby is deployed in. Amazon RDS provisions one dedicated standby per DB instance primary.
10. Backups must remain enabled for read replicas to work.
11. Second tier read replica are supported for Amazon Aurora, Amazon RDS for MySQL and MariaDB only.
12. Amazon RDS for PostgreSQL, Oracle and SQL Server: Read Replicas of Read Replicas are not currently supported.
