Route53
Amazon Route 53 is a highly available and scalable cloud Domain Name System (DNS) web service. Amazon Route 53 effectively connects user requests to
infrastructure running in AWS – such as Amazon EC2 instances, Elastic Load Balancing load balancers, or Amazon S3 buckets – and can also be used to
route users to infrastructure outside of AWS. You can use Amazon Route 53 to configure DNS health checks to route traffic to healthy endpoints or to
independently monitor the health of your application and its endpoints.

Amazon Route 53 is both an Authoritative DNS service and Recursive DNS service. Route 53 Resolver is a recursive DNS service.

Points to remember:
1. Route 53 automatically creates and manages health checks on your behalf which are used when you create an Alias record pointing to the ELB or S3
   website bucket and enable the "Evaluate Target Health" parameter on the Alias record.

2.


Routing policies supported by Route53:
1. Weighted Round Robin (WRR)
   Weighted Round Robin allows you to assign weights to resource record sets in order to specify the frequency with which different responses are
   served. For instance, suppose you have two record sets associated with one DNS name—one with weight 3 and one with weight 1. In this case, 75% of
   the time Route 53 will return the record set with weight 3 and 25% of the time Route 53 will return the record set with weight 1. Weights can be
   any number between 0 and 255.

2. Latency Based Routing (LBR)
   LBR (Latency Based Routing) is a new feature for Amazon Route 53 that helps you improve your application’s performance for a global audience. You
   can run applications in multiple AWS regions and Amazon Route 53, using dozens of edge locations worldwide, will route end users to the AWS region
   that provides the lowest latency.

3. Geo DNS
   Route 53 Geo DNS lets you balance load by directing requests to specific endpoints based on the geographic location from which the request
   originates. Geo DNS makes it possible to customize localized content, such as presenting detail pages in the right language or restricting
   distribution of content to only the markets you have licensed. Geo DNS also lets you balance load across endpoints in a predictable,
   easy-to-manage way, ensuring that each end-user location is consistently routed to the same endpoint.


Features:
1. Resolver
   Get recursive DNS for your Amazon VPC and on-premises networks.

2. Traffic flow
   Easy-to-use and cost-effective global traffic management: route end users to the best endpoint for your application based on geoproximity, latency,
   health.

3. Latency based routing
   Route end users to the AWS region that provides the lowest possible latency.

4. Geo DNS
   Route end users to a particular endpoint that you specify based on the end user’s geographic location.

5. Private DNS for Amazon VPC
   Manage custom domain names for your internal AWS resources without exposing DNS data to the public Internet.

6. DNS Failover
   Automatically route your website visitors to an alternate location to avoid site outages.

7. Health Checks and Monitoring
   Amazon Route 53 can monitor the health and performance of your application as well as your web servers and other resources.

8. Domain Registration
   Amazon Route 53 offers domain name registration services, where you can search for and register available domain names or transfer in existing
   domain names to be managed by Route 53.

9. CloudFront Zone Apex Support
   When using Amazon CloudFront to deliver your website content, visitors to your website can now access your site at the zone apex (or "root domain").
   For example, your site can be accessed as example.com instead of www.example.com

10. S3 Zone Apex Support
    Visitors to your website hosted on Amazon S3 can now access your site at the zone apex (or "root domain").

11. Amazon ELB Integration
    Amazon Route 53 is integrated with Elastic Load Balancing (ELB).

12. Management Console
    Amazon Route 53 works with the AWS Management Console. This web-based, point-and-click, graphical user interface lets you manage Amazon Route 53
    without writing any code at all.

13. Weighted Round Robin
    Amazon Route 53 offers Weighted Round Robin (WRR) functionality.

14. Queries to Alias records are free of charge and it can be created for zone apex. For e. g. example.com in www.example.com is zone apex.

15. HTTPS health checks support SNI.

16. CloudWatch metrics for Route 53 health checks are available free of charge.

Limits:
1. Amazon Route 53 does not support DNSSEC for DNS at this time. But Amazon Route 53 allows DNSSEC on domain registration.
2. You can associate any record type supported by Route 53 except SOA and NS records for health checks.
3. Route 53 does not make routing decisions based on the load or available traffic capacity of your endpoints.
4. The default is a threshold of three health check observations: when an endpoint has failed three consecutive observations, Route 53 will consider it failed
5. By default, health check observations are conducted at an interval of 30 seconds. You can optionally select a fast interval of 10 seconds between observations.
6. Route 53 health checks consider an HTTP 3xx code to be a successful response, so they don’t follow the redirect.
7. The health check searches for the specified string in the body of the redirect. Because the health check doesn’t follow the redirect, it never sends a request to the location that the redirect points to and never gets a response from that location.
8. Route 53 can only fail over to an endpoint that is healthy. If there are no healthy endpoints remaining in a resource record set, Route 53 will behave as if all health checks are passing.
9. HTTPS health checks test whether it’s possible to connect with the endpoint over SSL and whether the endpoint returns a valid HTTP response code. However, they do not validate the SSL certificate returned by the endpoint.
