Simple storage service

Features:

1. A single object can be up to 5 terabytes in size.
2. Inventory can be configured to generate reports on a daily or a weekly basis.
3. Objects can be accessed through S3 Access Points or directly through the bucket hostname.
4. S3 Object Lock feature blocks object version deletion during a customer-defined retention period.
5. To protect your data in Amazon S3, by default, users only have access to the S3 resources they create.
6. S3 Block Public Access settings override other S3 access permissions, making it easy for the account administrator to enforce a “no public access” policy.
7. S3 Access Points can be restricted to a Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), letting you easily firewall your S3 data within your private network.
8. AWS Service Control Policies can be used to require that any new S3 Access Point in your organization is restricted to VPC-only access.
9. Access Analyzer for S3 is used to evaluate your bucket access policies and enables you to discover and swiftly remediate buckets with potentially unintended access.
10. Amazon Macie can be used to discover, classify, and protect sensitive data stored in Amazon S3.
11. S3 Select is an S3 feature designed to increase query performance by up to 400%, and reduce querying costs as much as 80%.
12. Amazon Athena queries your data in Amazon S3 without needing to extract and load it into a separate service or platform.
13. Amazon Redshift Spectrum also runs SQL queries directly against data at rest in Amazon S3, and is more appropriate for complex queries and large data sets.
14. Since Amazon Athena and Amazon Redshift share a common data catalog and data formats, you can use them both against the same data sets in Amazon S3.
15. S3 Transfer Acceleration is designed to maximize transfer speeds to S3 buckets over long distances.
16. AWS Storage Gateway can be used to enable a cloud storage architecture for on-prem applications to seamlessly connect on-premises environments to Amazon S3.
17. AWS DataSync can be used to automate transferring data between on-premises storage and AWS which can transfer data at speeds up to 10 times faster than open-source tools.
18. AWS Transfer for SFTP can be used to transfer files directly into and out of Amazon S3 using the Secure File Transfer Protocol.
19. S3 Storage Classes can be configured at the object level, and a single bucket can contain objects stored across S3 Standard, S3 Intelligent-Tiering, S3 Standard-IA, and S3 One Zone-IA


S3 Storage Classes:
1. General Purpose S3 standard
    Low latency and high throughput performance, Resilient against events that impact an entire Availability Zone, Supports SSL for data in transit and encryption of data at rest,
    S3 Lifecycle management for automatic migration of objects to other S3 Storage Classes, Backed with AWS S3 SLA, Designed for 99.99% availability over a given year

2. Unknown or Changing access S3 Intelligent-Tiering
    Low latency and high throughput performance, Small monthly monitoring and auto-tiering fee, Automatically moves objects between two access tiers based on changing access patterns,
    Backed with AWS S3 SLA, Supports SSL for data in transit and encryption of data at rest, S3 Lifecycle management for automatic migration of objects to other S3 Storage Classes,
    Ideal storage class for long-lived data with access patterns that are unknown or unpredictable, A minimum eligible object size of 128KB for auto-tiering, Smaller objects may be
    stored but will always be charged at the Frequent Access tier rates

3. Infrequent access S3 standard IA
    Standard-IA is for data that is accessed less frequently, but requires rapid access when needed, S3 Standard-IA ideal for long-term storage, backups, and as a data store for disaster recovery files
    Designed for 99.9% availability over a given year, Backed with AWS S3 SLA,

4. One Zone-Infrequent Access S3 One Zone-IA
    S3 One Zone-IA stores data in a single AZ and costs 20% less than S3 Standard-IA, Ideal for lower-cost option for infrequently accessed data but do not require the availability and resilience of S3 Standard
    Or S3 Standard-IA, S3 One Zone-IA stores data in a single AWS Availability Zone, data stored in this storage class will be lost in the event of Availability Zone destruction.

5. Archive S3 Glacier
    S3 Glacier is a secure, durable, and low-cost storage class for data archiving, To keep costs low yet suitable for varying needs, S3 Glacier provides three retrieval options that range from a few minutes to hours,
    Configurable retrieval times, from minutes to hours, Low-cost design is ideal for long-term archive,

6. S3 Glacier Deep Archive
    Amazon S3’s lowest-cost storage class and supports long-term retention and digital preservation for data that may be accessed once or twice in a year, It is designed for highly-regulated industries, such as the
    Financial Services, Healthcare, and Public Sectors — that retain data sets for 7-10 years or longer to meet regulatory compliance, Can also be used for backup and disaster recovery use cases, and is a
    cost-effective and easy-to-manage alternative to magnetic tape systems, S3 Glacier Deep Archive are replicated and stored across at least three geographically-dispersed Availability Zones, Protected by
    99.999999999% of durability, and can be restored within 12 hours.
